Kubernetes in action:
Labels: 
app: Specifies which app, component or MS this pod belongs to  
rel: Shows whether the application running in th epod is stable, beta or canary. 
A canary release is when you deploy a new version of an application next to the stable version, and only let a small fraction of users hit the new version to see how it behaves before rolling it out to all users

Get by label
Kubectl po --show-labels
kubectl get po -L creation_method,env

Modify label
k label po frontend env=debug --overwrite

Listing subsets of pods. 
kubectl get po -l creation_method=manual
kubectl get po -l '!env'
similarly 
creation_method!=manual

Using multiple Conditions in a label selector. 
app=px,rel=beta

3.5
Using labels and selectios to constrain pod scheduling. 
Pods by default are scheduled randomly across worker nodes. 
You may want to have some say in where a pod should be scheduled. 
E.g. If part of your worker nodes have HDD and others have SSD. May want to schedule certain pods
to one group of nodes and the rest to other. 
Another example is when you need to shedule pods performing intensive GPU based computation only 
to nodes that provid the required GPU acceleration. 

Never want to specifically sate what node a pod should be scheduled to, this couples the application to 
the infrastructure. 
If you want to have a sa in where a pod should be shceduled, instead of specifying an exact node. 
Kubernetes selects a node that matches those requirements. Can be done through node labels and label selectors. 

Labels can be attached to any Kubernetes object including nodes. 
kubectl label node gke-kubia-85f6-node-0rrx gpu=true
list only ones with labels gpu=true 
kubectl get nodes -l gpu=true

Schedule pods to specific nodes. 

apiVersion: v1
...
...
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    gpu: "true"
    containers:
    - image: chitralimbu/image
      name: chitralimbu
      
Kubernetes will only select nodes with gpu: "true" label. 

Similarly could also schedule a pod to an exact node. 
because each node also has a unique label with the key kubernetes.io/hostname and value set to the actual hostname of the node.
 
Annotating PODS. 

 
